Architectural Blueprint and UI/UX Strategy for a Modular, Nature-Themed Portfolio Revamp
Executive Summary and Current State Diagnostics
The transition of a developer portfolio from a functional, hard-coded repository to a highly polished, modular, and thematic digital experience requires a meticulous orchestration of underlying architecture and surface-level aesthetics. An exhaustive analysis of the current repository state, combined with a visual audit of the live deployment, reveals a foundational reliance on standard GitHub Pages hosting driven primarily by static HTML documents. The repository consists of an overwhelming 76.3% HTML, 19.6% CSS, and 4.1% JavaScript, which strongly indicates a manual, content-heavy structure rather than a dynamically generated, component-based layout.   

A diagnostic review of the current file structure uncovers several critical maintenance issues and deviations from modern web development standards that must be rectified to achieve true modularity. The root directory contains unprocessed assets, such as specific imagery (Fracal-Crossroads.jpg), text notes (Google Font info.txt), and compressed library archives (unitegallery-master.zip). The inclusion of zipped dependencies in the root directory directly violates best practices for dependency management and creates deployment bloat. Furthermore, the segregation of content into distinct directories—such as Art_Gallery, Model_Gallery, and Projects—without an underlying content management framework or templating engine results in severe scalability bottlenecks. Every new addition to these galleries currently necessitates the manual duplication of HTML boilerplate, exponentially increasing the risk of structural inconsistencies, navigational dead ends, and technical debt.   

Beyond the architectural constraints, a visual audit of the provided interface images reveals a design language that, while ambitious, currently suffers from visual dissonance and outdated UI patterns. The primary landing page utilizes an exceptionally dark, heavily forested background photograph overlaid with high-contrast, bright green text and call-to-action buttons. The "A Quick Intro" section features a rigid, sharp-cornered border that conflicts with the organic, flowing nature of the background imagery. The interface typography relies on stark white and neon green, which can cause optical strain against the near-black background.

Furthermore, as the user navigates between subpages, the thematic consistency fractures. The "3D Model Library" introduces a vibrant, cartoonish aesthetic with a bright pink character and saturated green grass, which visually collides with the moody, cinematic photography of the home page. The "Artwork Gallery" utilizes a beautifully rendered hand-drawn sketch as a hero image, yet the portfolio items beneath it are constrained within strict, right-angled CSS grid boxes that strip away the "artsy" intent. The "Projects" page features another distinct background—an abstract aerial view of intersecting roads or rivers—and presents project details, such as the "MyRepertoireApp," in rigid, dark green container cards.

To achieve the desired "defined, polished, yet quirky and artsy nature-themed feel," the architecture must be fundamentally decoupled from its presentation, and the visual identity must be unified under a softer, more cohesive design system. The rigid grid layouts must be abandoned in favor of fluid geometries. The stark, dark backgrounds must be replaced with textured, light-absorbing surfaces that mimic natural materials like watercolor paper or canvas. The following analysis provides an exhaustive roadmap for transitioning the repository into a modular Jekyll-based ecosystem, defining the exact visual parameters of the requested aesthetic, mapping out advanced CSS texturing techniques, and providing a comprehensive, step-by-step coding checklist optimized for Large Language Model (LLM) ingestion to execute this systemic overhaul.

Repository Restructuring and Static Site Generation Architecture
The fundamental flaw in the existing portfolio architecture is the complete lack of separation between data (the content of the projects, art, and blogs) and the layout (the HTML structure). While the presence of a _config.yml file in the repository indicates a rudimentary awareness of Jekyll—the default static site generator natively integrated into GitHub Pages—the overwhelming dominance of static HTML files suggests that Jekyll's powerful templating engines and data management capabilities are entirely unutilized.   

Directory Hygiene and Semantic Asset Management
The first architectural mandate for the revamp is the sterilization of the root directory. Modern static site architectures demand strict compartmentalization to ensure maintainability and compilation speed. The current state, which litters the root with image files and compressed archives, creates a chaotic development environment. External libraries, such as gallery plugins, must be extracted and relocated to a dedicated vendor/ or assets/vendor/ directory, or ideally, managed via a modern package manager and compiled via GitHub Actions.   

The transition to a polished, modular state requires establishing a semantic asset pipeline. The root directory should be radically simplified to contain only core configuration files (_config.yml, .gitignore, Gemfile), the primary entry point (index.md or index.html), and Jekyll-specific operational directories. All global imagery must be migrated into an assets/images/ directory. Stylesheets should no longer be written as monolithic CSS files; instead, they should be compiled from modular Sass partials located in a dedicated _sass/ directory, allowing for the organized management of variables, typography, component styles, and layout grids.   

Advanced Modularization Strategy via Jekyll Collections
To fulfill the user's primary requirement of making the addition of blogs and pages effortless, the architecture must leverage Jekyll Collections. Currently, the repository attempts to organize content by placing HTML files into isolated folders named after the content type. This is an anti-pattern in modern static site generation.   

Jekyll distinguishes between two primary content models that are essential for a portfolio of this complexity: Posts and Collections. Posts are inherently chronological, designed specifically for blog entries, and are strictly formatted with filenames utilizing the YYYY-MM-DD-title.md syntax. Collections, however, allow for the arbitrary grouping of related content where the chronological publication date is irrelevant to the user experience. For an electronics engineer and digital artist, projects, art pieces, and 3D models represent distinct taxonomies of work that perfectly align with the Collections architecture.   

The configuration of these collections requires explicit declaration in the _config.yml file. By defining collections as a mapping rather than a simple array, specific metadata, rendering behaviors, and permalink structures can be enforced uniformly across all items within that specific collection.   

Collection Type	Core Purpose and Content	Recommended Directory	Output Configuration Strategy
Engineering Projects	Hardware design, RTL coding, software applications	_projects	output: true (Generates standalone case study pages)
Artwork Gallery	Digital illustrations, traditional sketches, paintings	_art	output: true (Generates individual high-res viewing pages)
3D Models	Blender renders, asset libraries, animations	_models	output: true (Generates pages with embedded 3D viewers)
Technical Blog	Chronological updates, tutorials, thought leadership	_posts	N/A (Utilizes default Jekyll chronological compilation)
To implement this programmatic structure, the _config.yml file must be updated with the following logical mapping to ensure that each collection generates its own standalone HTML page upon compilation :   

YAML
collections:
  projects:
    output: true
    permalink: /projects/:title/
  art:
    output: true
    permalink: /art/:title/
  models:
    output: true
    permalink: /models/:title/
This structural shift completely transforms the content management workflow. Instead of manually duplicating an entire HTML layout, writing inline CSS, and hardcoding image paths, the addition of a new portfolio piece is reduced to creating a simple Markdown file within the respective collection folder (e.g., _projects/vlsi-repertoire-app.md).   

This Markdown file will utilize Front Matter—a block of YAML metadata located at the very top of the file—to define the project title, the thumbnail image path, relevant technical tags, and the date. The presentation layer is then completely abstracted and handled via Liquid templating in the _layouts and _includes directories. A single layout file (e.g., _layouts/project.html) will dynamically iterate over the Markdown content and inject the Front Matter variables into the designated HTML structure. This programmatic approach ensures absolute visual consistency across the entire site, eliminates HTML duplication, and reduces the friction of adding new content to near zero, satisfying the core request for easy maintenance.   

Visual Identity and Thematic Metamorphosis: The Artsy Nature Theme
Translating a abstract concept like a "quirky, artsy, nature-themed" portfolio into a tangible digital interface requires a complete departure from the sterile, corporate grid layouts and harsh, high-contrast dark modes currently present on the live site. Nature is inherently organic, asymmetrical, and highly textured. The visual strategy must abandon rigid geometry and synthetic colors, relying instead on botanical motifs, earthy color palettes, and fluid shapes to establish the desired aesthetic.   

The Earthy Boho Color Paradigm
Color is the primary driver of digital atmosphere and emotional resonance. The current site utilizes a nearly black background paired with vibrant, almost neon greens. This creates a highly technical, almost "cyberpunk" feel that conflicts directly with the requested "artsy nature" theme. To evoke a natural environment without resorting to overwhelming, stereotypical primary greens, the portfolio must utilize an "Earthy Boho" palette.   

This specific palette methodology relies on muted, desaturated tones inspired by natural, tactile elements such as weathered wood, dried sage leaves, river stones, and desert landscapes. An analysis of modern nature-inspired digital design trends indicates that the most successful and aesthetically pleasing interfaces pair warm, soft, off-white backgrounds with deeper, highly contrasting organic accents. The industry-standard "Natura" palette and the trending "Desert Agave" color sets provide an optimal mathematical foundation for this transformation.   

The following table outlines the foundational color variables that should be implemented globally via CSS Custom Properties (:root variables) within the new _sass architecture. This methodology ensures theme consistency and allows for effortless global adjustments.

CSS Variable Name	Interface Role	Hexadecimal Code	RGB Value Breakdown	CMYK Value Breakdown	Origin/Thematic Inspiration
--color-bg-primary	Main Viewport Background	#F7F1DE	247, 241, 222	0, 2, 10, 3	
Buttery White / Bleached Sand 

--color-bg-secondary	Component/Card Background	#EFF7E3	239, 247, 227	3, 0, 8, 3	
Spring Green / Pale Orchard 

--color-text-primary	Main Typography & Headings	#415361	65, 83, 97	33, 14, 0, 62	
Midnight Blue / Deep River 

--color-text-secondary	Subtitles & Metadata	#635147	99, 81, 71	0, 18, 28, 61	
Raw Umber / Weathered Bark 

--color-accent-sage	Primary Accent & Active Links	#9EA791	158, 167, 145	10, 0, 15, 35	
Dried Sage Leaf 

--color-accent-terra	Secondary Accent & Hover States	#CC7722	204, 119, 34	0, 42, 83, 20	
Ochre / Baked Clay 

  
To ensure that this specific color palette meets the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) for digital design, the relative luminance of these colors must be mathematically evaluated to maintain a minimum contrast ratio of 4.5:1 for standard text. The relative luminance (L) is calculated using the standard accessibility formula, where RGB values are normalized to a specific color space:

L=0.2126×R 
sRGB
​
 +0.7152×G 
sRGB
​
 +0.0722×B 
sRGB
​
 
Evaluating the pairing of Midnight Blue (#415361) as the primary text color against the Buttery White background (#F7F1DE) yields a contrast ratio that exceeds 7:1. This mathematical verification ensures that the transition to a softer, artsy aesthetic does not compromise the usability, legibility, or ADA compliance of the portfolio. By abandoning the harsh dark green backgrounds and moving to this light, earthy canvas, the user's vibrant 3D models and dark pencil sketches will stand out effectively without clashing with the underlying interface UI.

Fluid Geometry and Hand-Drawn Motifs
The "quirky" and "artsy" components of the prompt dictate a severe departure from sharp corners and rigid CSS boxes, which currently dominate the user's live site (evident in the "A Quick Intro" box and the artwork grid). Nature does not build in perfect rectangles. The User Interface (UI) components must embrace fluid shapes, often referred to in modern web design as "blob" or "organic" geometry.   

This organic aesthetic can be achieved programmatically by utilizing the CSS border-radius property with highly asymmetrical, multi-value declarations. Instead of a standard, uniform radius (e.g., border-radius: 8px), elements such as project cards, profile images, and call-to-action buttons should utilize complex radii to simulate natural irregularity. By declaring values such as border-radius: 60% 40% 30% 70% / 60% 30% 70% 40%, the browser's rendering engine transforms standard rectangular div elements into organic, pebble-like, amoebic shapes. These radii can be animated via CSS transitions on hover, causing the shapes to gently morph and shift, injecting a subtle, quirky interactivity into the site.   

Furthermore, the interface should deeply integrate hand-drawn botanical SVG illustrations as background elements, section dividers, and structural accents. High-quality, scalable vector graphics of ferns, monstera leaves, trailing vines, or simple floral line art can be sourced from reputable repositories like Flaticon or IconScout. However, these SVGs should not be placed as standard inline images, which would clutter the layout. Instead, they should be utilized as absolute-positioned background layers with exceptionally low opacity (opacity: 0.05 to 0.1) and the CSS property pointer-events: none applied. This specific implementation ensures the botanical drawings act as a subtle, thematic wallpaper—a textural whisper behind the content—rather than acting as distracting focal points that compete with the user's actual portfolio work.   

The Mathematics and Implementation of Digital Textures
A defining characteristic of modern "artsy" web design is the deliberate, calculated introduction of analog imperfections into the pristine digital canvas. Flat vector colors, even when utilizing an earthy palette, often feel sterile and corporate. To truly evoke a natural, watercolor-like or paper-like feel as requested, the design must incorporate digital noise textures and grainy gradients.   

Adding a fine grain texture across the viewport drastically elevates the perceived quality of a site, making the digital experience feel premium, tactile, and distinctly human rather than artificial. While a static, looping GIF can technically be used as a simple background overlay , a highly performant, modular, and resolution-independent approach utilizes SVG filters directly generated and injected via CSS.   

The underlying algorithmic mechanism relies on the SVG <feTurbulence> primitive. This filter generates Perlin noise—a type of gradient noise algorithm originally developed for CGI to simulate natural elements like clouds, wood grain, and rough stone. The mathematical basis of Perlin noise involves generating pseudo-random gradients at defined grid vertices and interpolating between them, creating a smooth, organic randomness rather than harsh static.   

The implementation requires defining an SVG filter, which can be elegantly encoded as a Base64 string directly within the CSS stylesheet to prevent an additional HTTP request:

CSS
.texture-overlay {
  position: fixed;
  top: 0; left: 0; width: 100vw; height: 100vh;
  background-image: url("data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg viewBox='0 0 200 200' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%3E%3Cfilter id='noiseFilter'%3E%3CfeTurbulence type='fractalNoise' baseFrequency='0.65' numOctaves='3' stitchTiles='stitch'/%3E%3C/filter%3E%3Crect width='100%25' height='100%25' filter='url(%23noiseFilter)'/%3E%3C/svg%3E");
  opacity: 0.05;
  mix-blend-mode: soft-light;
  pointer-events: none;
  z-index: 9999;
}
By adjusting the baseFrequency parameter within the SVG markup, the grain size can be finely manipulated. A higher frequency (e.g., 0.8) yields a finer, sand-like texture suitable for imitating thick paper, while a lower frequency (e.g., 0.1) produces a cloudier, watercolor-like color bleed.

Crucially, the CSS mix-blend-mode property must be set to overlay or soft-light, and the opacity heavily reduced. This ensures the mathematical noise sits above all other DOM elements, subtly altering the colors beneath it without interfering with user clicks, text selection, or scrolling. This single CSS class provides a universal, organic paper-like finish to the entire portfolio, immediately satisfying the "artsy" requirement.   

Spatial Dynamics and Scroll-Triggered Interactions
To prevent the newly textured portfolio from feeling like a static document, the integration of scrollytelling techniques and CSS scroll-based animations is required. Nature is inherently dynamic; elements blow in the wind, water flows, and light shifts. The website's response to user input should mirror this environmental fluidity.   

The deployment of pure CSS scroll-triggered animations represents the modern vanguard of UI development, largely eliminating the need for heavy JavaScript libraries (like GSAP or ScrollMagic) for basic spatial interactions. Utilizing the modern CSS animation-timeline: scroll(); property allows layout elements to scale, fade, or rotate in direct, mathematical proportion to the user's vertical scroll position.   

For a nature-themed portfolio seeking a quirky atmosphere, specific interactions should be prioritized within the CSS architecture:

Parallax Botanical Backgrounds: The background botanical SVG illustrations should be assigned a translation value that moves them at a fraction of the standard scrolling speed compared to the foreground text. This mimics the optical depth of a forest environment, where distant trees move slower across the visual field than nearby foliage.   

Scroll-Driven Organic Reveal: As the user scrolls down to the projects or art gallery collections, the pebble-shaped cards should emerge smoothly with a slight upward translation combined with a fade-in (e.g., transitioning from opacity: 0; transform: translateY(40px) to opacity: 1; translateY(0)).   

Sticky Stacking Sections: When navigating through lengthy case studies or the resume section, utilizing position: sticky on section headers allows them to lock to the top of the viewport. As subsequent sections scroll up, they overlap the previous ones, creating a physical stacking effect reminiscent of shuffling paper documents.   

These interactions must be implemented with precise, smooth easing curves (e.g., transition-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.25, 1, 0.5, 1)) to avoid mechanical, linear movements. The easing ensures that the interface feels responsive, organic, and physically grounded.

Engineering a Professional Resume and Skills Taxonomy
The creation of a professional life, skills, and resume page is a critical component of the requested portfolio revamp. The current site's introduction clearly identifies the user as an electronics engineer specializing in digital design, working at a major semiconductor corporation, and holding a degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE). For technical professionals in hardware, VLSI, or embedded systems, showcasing highly specialized skills visually while remaining parseable by automated Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS) is an exceptionally difficult balance to strike.   

The Fallacy of Skill Bars and Quantification
A common, detrimental mistake in creative developer portfolios is the use of progress bars, circular charts, or arbitrary percentages to denote skill levels (e.g., "Python: 80%", "Circuit Design: 90%", "Verilog: 75%"). This approach is fundamentally flawed and universally disliked by engineering hiring managers. It is epistemologically impossible to quantify an absolute mastery of a technology, and such charts raise more questions than they answer—prompting recruiters to ask, "What does the missing 25% of Verilog look like?".   

Instead, the resume page must categorize skills functionally and display them as semantic elements. Grouping skills by engineering domain allows visiting recruiters or peers to instantly understand the breadth of capabilities. The UI should present these as pill-shaped tags utilizing the Earthy Boho color palette:   

Hardware Architecture & VLSI: RTL Coding (Verilog/VHDL), SystemVerilog, FPGA Prototyping, Logic Synthesis, Timing Closure.   

Design & Creative Systems: Figma, Adobe Creative Suite, UI/UX Architecture, Blender 3D Modeling.   

Software & Toolchains: Python, C++, UVM Verification, Synopsys Design Compiler, Yosys.   

Showcasing Proprietary Hardware Engineering Projects
A unique challenge for engineers working in hardware or semiconductor design (such as at Intel, NVIDIA, or TI) is that their most impressive, career-defining work is deeply shielded by strict Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs). Furthermore, a physical semiconductor chip or a proprietary logic block cannot be linked via a URL or embedded in an iframe in the same manner as a web application.   

To circumvent this severe limitation, the portfolio's project pages must focus intensely on the architecture, the verification methodology, and the business impact rather than displaying proprietary code or schematics. The resume page and individual project layouts should structure narratives using sanitized, generalized descriptions.   

Sanitized Block Diagrams: Create custom, aesthetically pleasing block diagrams of system architectures using the portfolio's sage green and ochre color palette. These diagrams abstract away proprietary gate-level details while demonstrating a profound understanding of system-level data flow and memory management.   

Waveform Visualizations: For RTL and digital design engineers, incorporating sanitized waveform simulation images serves as a highly specific, visually compelling proof of verification capability. A well-structured waveform is the hardware equivalent of clean code.   

Metrics-Driven Descriptions: Focus the textual narrative on measurable engineering outcomes. Instead of describing the exact logic gates designed, the semantic HTML lists should state: "Led the logic implementation of complex DSP blocks, resulting in a 30% reduction in dynamic power consumption through innovative clock-gating strategies".   

Open Source Parallels: To supplement confidential professional work, the portfolio should feature complex personal or open-source hardware projects (e.g., designing a simple RISC-V core, a UART controller, or a custom FSM) to serve as direct, auditable evidence of RTL coding standards and synthesis capabilities.   

ATS Compatibility vs. Visual Creativity
While the page must look "quirky and artsy" to human eyes, the underlying Document Object Model (DOM) structure must be pristine to ensure automated parsers can extract the resume data seamlessly. The HTML structure must rely heavily on semantic tags rather than generic <div> soup: <article> tags for distinct employment roles, <header> tags for job titles and temporal data, <time> tags for exact employment durations, and strict <ul> structures for achievement lists.   

The required visual creativity should be applied purely via the CSS layer on top of this semantic foundation. For example, a standard unordered list tracking a career trajectory can be styled via CSS pseudo-elements (::before, ::after) to look like a dynamic, vertical timeline winding down the page like a vine. SVG icons of leaves can be injected as list markers instead of standard bullet points. This methodology satisfies the quirky aesthetic requirement without compromising the professional utility and machine-readability of the engineering resume.   

Exhaustive LLM Prompting Checklist for Implementation
Because Large Language Models generate text and code but do not physically "see" or evaluate visual aesthetics in the same manner a human designer does, achieving a highly specific visual and structural outcome requires prompts that explicitly describe spatial relationships, color mathematics, and precise file hierarchies. Providing an LLM with a vague prompt like "make it look natural" will result in generic, unsatisfactory code.

The following is an exhaustive, sequential checklist designed to be fed into an advanced LLM coding assistant (such as Claude 3.5 Sonnet, GPT-4o, or GitHub Copilot). By executing these highly detailed prompts sequentially, the developer will systematically force the LLM to restructure the repository, generate the necessary Jekyll scaffolding, and build out the exact "artsy nature" design system described in this report.

Phase 1: Structural Sanitization and Jekyll Environment Scaffolding
This phase establishes the foundational architecture, moving the project from a chaotic static folder to a programmatic Jekyll environment.

Prompt 1 (Root Directory Sterilization):
"I am completely restructuring a GitHub Pages repository to transition from hardcoded HTML to a modular Jekyll architecture. First, I need to clean the root directory. Generate a robust bash script that executes the following operations: 1. Move all visual assets (.jpg, .png, .svg) from the root into a new assets/images/ directory. 2. Move all .css and .js files into assets/css/ and assets/js/. 3. Create a vendor/ directory and move any third-party zip files (like unitegallery-master.zip) into it to remove them from the build path. Finally, generate a comprehensive .gitignore file specifically tailored for Jekyll that excludes _site/, .jekyll-cache/, .sass-cache/, and the newly created vendor/ directory."

Prompt 2 (Jekyll Configuration and Collection Mapping):
"Now, generate a complete, production-ready _config.yml file for my new Jekyll site. Include standard parameters for site title, description, and baseurl. Critically, define three specific Jekyll collections: projects, art, and models. I need all three collections to generate standalone pages, so ensure they all have the output: true parameter set. Specify a logical permalink structure for each (e.g., /projects/:title/). Add an exclude array to prevent Jekyll from processing the vendor/ directory."

Prompt 3 (Directory Scaffolding & Component Planning):
"Provide the exact terminal commands required to create the essential Jekyll directory structure based on the config we just made. Create _layouts, _includes, _projects, _art, _models, and _sass. Following the commands, write a brief, 3-sentence explanation for what logic will go into the _layouts vs. _includes folders to ensure the architecture remains modular."

Phase 2: Design System Engineering and CSS Variable Architecture
This phase forces the LLM to establish the aesthetic baseline using precise semantic descriptors and mathematical color values.

Prompt 4 (The Earthy Boho Color Matrix):
"I am implementing an 'Earthy Boho / Desert Agave' color theme to achieve a soft, nature-inspired look. I do not want any harsh blacks or pure whites. Create a _sass/_variables.scss file. Define a CSS custom properties palette (:root) utilizing the following exact hexadecimal values: Main background is Buttery White (#F7F1DE), secondary card background is Spring Green (#EFF7E3), primary text is Midnight Blue (#415361), muted text is Raw Umber (#635147), primary accent is Sage Leaf (#9EA791), and hover state accent is Ochre (#CC7722). Ensure the variable names are semantic (e.g., --color-bg-primary, --color-text-main)."

Prompt 5 (Typography & Viewport Reset):
"Using the CSS variables defined in the previous step, generate the base CSS/SCSS styling for the body, html, and * selector reset. Apply smooth scrolling behavior globally. Provide the @import statement to pull in Google Fonts: use 'Lora' for all heading tags (h1-h6) to give an artsy, editorial feel, and use 'Inter' for body text to maintain crisp engineering legibility. Apply the --color-bg-primary to the body background and --color-text-main to the color property."

Prompt 6 (Organic Fluid Geometry Utilities):
"To fit the quirky nature theme, I must avoid perfect rectangles and sharp corners. Generate a set of CSS utility classes (name them .blob-shape-1, .blob-shape-2, .blob-shape-3) that utilize complex, multi-value border-radius properties (e.g., border-radius: 60% 40% 30% 70% / 60% 30% 70% 40%). These will be used to transform standard div containers into fluid, pebble-like, asymmetrical shapes. Include a CSS transition on these classes so that on :hover, the border-radius values shift slightly, creating a morphing, organic animation."

Phase 3: Textural Rendering and Environmental Atmosphere
This phase implements the advanced math and SVG filtering required for the tactile, artsy feel.

Prompt 7 (Perlin Noise Generation via SVG):
"I need to add a tactile, grainy paper texture over the entire site. Write the CSS to create a fixed, full-screen overlay class called .noise-overlay. Use a Base64 encoded inline SVG within the background-image property. The SVG must contain the <feTurbulence> filter generating Perlin noise with a baseFrequency of '0.65'. Set the .noise-overlay mix-blend-mode to soft-light, the opacity to 0.05, pointer-events: none, and assign a maximum z-index so it sits over the entire DOM seamlessly."

Prompt 8 (Botanical Watermark Injections):
"Write the CSS framework for adding absolute-positioned botanical background elements. Assume I have transparent SVG files of leaves in my images folder. Provide the CSS class .botanical-accent that will position these leaves dynamically in the absolute corners of a parent <section> with position: relative. The leaves must have low opacity (0.1), be rotated slightly (e.g., transform: rotate(15deg)), and act as a subtle watermark behind the main content."

Phase 4: Component Templating and Liquid Layouts
This phase builds the Jekyll templates that consume the Markdown collections, automating the UI generation.

Prompt 9 (The Master Layout):
"Generate the primary Jekyll _layouts/default.html template. Include standard HTML5 boilerplate and <meta> viewport tags. Inject the Google Fonts link, link the compiled CSS file, and place the Liquid {{ content }} tag within a semantic <main> wrapper. Include Jekyll {% include header.html %} and {% include footer.html %} tags at the top and bottom. Place the <div class="noise-overlay"></div> right before the closing </body> tag."

Prompt 10 (The Asymmetrical Project Card):
"Generate the HTML and CSS for a responsive 'Project Card' component. The HTML structure must be semantic. The card must apply one of the asymmetrical .blob-shape classes created earlier to its container. It should have a background color of the Sage Leaf variable. The internal structure should include an image thumbnail, an <h3> title, and a <p> excerpt. Include a subtle CSS hover state that translates the card upward by 4px and deepens the drop shadow."

Prompt 11 (Liquid Collection Iteration):
"Write the exact Jekyll Liquid markup required to iterate over my newly created site.projects collection. For each project in the collection, render the Project Card component generated in the previous step. Show me how to structure the {% for project in site.projects %} loop and how to output the {{ project.url }}, {{ project.title }}, and {{ project.image }} variables that will be defined in the individual Markdown front matter."

Phase 5: Scroll Dynamics and Interactivity
This phase adds organic motion and CSS-driven interactivity to the DOM.

Prompt 12 (Scroll-Driven Reveal Animations):
"Generate modern CSS to implement a scroll-triggered slide-up and fade-in effect. Do not use JavaScript. Use the @keyframes rule. If the modern CSS animation-timeline: view() property is appropriate, use it; otherwise, provide a standard CSS class .animate-on-scroll that utilizes an Intersection Observer fallback. The animation should make elements gracefully appear from opacity: 0 and transform: translateY(30px) to their resting state with a natural cubic-bezier easing."

Phase 6: The Professional Resume and Hardware Skills Page Architecture
This phase structures the engineering and design credentials for human readability and machine parsing.

Prompt 13 (CSS Grid Resume Architecture):
"Design a highly responsive grid layout using CSS Grid for a 'Resume & Skills' page. The layout should feature a two-column design on desktop. The left column should act as a sticky sidebar (position: sticky; top: 2rem;) containing a short bio, the blob-shaped profile picture, and contact links. The wider right column should contain vertically stacked semantic <section> tags for 'Experience', 'Education', and 'Skills'. Ensure the grid collapses to a single column on mobile devices."

Prompt 14 (Functional Skill Taxonomies):
"Write the HTML and CSS to display engineering and design skills. Explicitly DO NOT use percentage bars, circular progress charts, or ratings. Instead, group the skills into functional flexbox wrap containers under <h4> headers (e.g., 'Hardware & VLSI', 'Creative Design'). Style the individual skills as pill-shaped tags (border-radius: 999px;) with a light earthy background and deep blue text, ensuring high contrast and immediate readability."

Prompt 15 (Sanitized Engineering Case Study Layout):
"Provide a semantic HTML/CSS template designed specifically for showcasing a highly technical engineering project (like RTL design or PCB layout) that is protected by an NDA. The layout should feature a placeholder area for a sanitized architectural block diagram or logic waveform image on one side. On the other side, create a <ul> list focused entirely on measurable metrics, architectural choices, and power reduction impact rather than proprietary code snippets. Ensure the use of <article> and <header> tags so the data is perfectly readable by Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS)."

Strategic Conclusions
Transforming a disjointed repository of static HTML files into a cohesive, professional, and visually captivating digital portfolio requires both rigid engineering discipline and fluid creative vision. The current repository structure, which is heavily reliant on duplicated markup and scattered assets, presents a fundamental barrier to scalability, iterative development, and technical maintenance.   

By systematically migrating the repository to a strictly enforced Jekyll Collection architecture, the portfolio successfully decouples the data layer from the presentation layer. This profound structural modularity ensures that the addition of new 3D art pieces, technical blog posts, or complex VLSI engineering case studies becomes entirely frictionless. The developer is empowered to focus solely on drafting Markdown documents with appropriate Front Matter, allowing the Liquid templating engine to autonomously generate the complex HTML DOM.   

Aesthetically, the translation of the subjective "quirky, artsy nature" theme relies on actively subverting the rigid, right-angled conventions of standard corporate web frameworks. By adopting an Earthy Boho color palette driven by mathematically verified luminance contrast ratios, utilizing fluid CSS geometries via multi-value border radii, and injecting Perlin noise textures via SVG turbulence algorithms, the digital interface achieves a highly tactile, organic atmosphere. This creates a visually forgiving "gallery wall" that unifies disparate content types—from dark photography to vibrant 3D models—under a single, cohesive thematic umbrella.   

Finally, for a practitioner bridging the demanding gap between creative digital design and highly technical electronics engineering, the professional resume page must meticulously balance visual ingenuity with automated ATS parsability. By completely abandoning arbitrary skill bars in favor of functional taxonomies, and by abstracting proprietary hardware work into high-level architectural narratives and block diagrams, the portfolio establishes immediate, undeniable credibility with engineering recruiters without violating industry confidentiality protocols.   

The exhaustive, multi-phase prompt checklist provided within this report serves as the exact semantic bridge required to translate these high-level architectural and UI/UX design concepts into executable, production-ready code via Large Language Models. Executing this systematic roadmap will yield a portfolio that is technically robust, infinitely scalable, and distinctly memorable in a crowded engineering job market.